Hi everybody, welcome back to the Data Science Hangout. I'm Rachel, I lead Customer Marketing
at Posit, and I'm so excited to have you joining us today. The Hangout is our open space to hear
what's going on in the world of data across different industries, chat about data science
leadership, and connect with others who are facing similar things as you. We get together here every
Thursday at the same time, same place, so if this is your first time joining us, it is so nice to
meet you. If it is anybody's first time, let us know in the chat, we'd love to say hi and and
welcome anybody in who's joining for the first time today. We're all dedicated to keeping this
a friendly and welcoming space for everybody, so we love hearing from you no matter your years of
experience, titles, industry, or the languages that you work in. It's totally okay to also just listen
in here if you want, and awesome to be a part of the party that happens in the Zoom chat.
You'll notice that people share a lot of helpful resources and thoughts in the chat as well.
There's also three ways that you can jump in and ask questions or provide your own perspective on
certain topics too, so first you could raise your hand on Zoom and I'll keep an eye out and I can
call on you. Two, you can put questions in the Zoom chat, and if you're in your coffee shop or maybe
out walking your dog or something and you want to put a star next to it, I'll know to read it,
otherwise I'll call on you to introduce yourself and add some context.
And then third, we also have a Slido link where you can ask questions anonymously too.
I did just want to mention because we have quite a few people maybe joining for the first time
that we do also have a LinkedIn group for the Data Science Hangout. Not always the easiest
for ongoing conversations, but it's helpful to help connect with people that you meet here,
maybe have met through the chat. And I also did want to say real quickly before we
get started here, and I know Curtis will share this in the chat, but the Call for Talks just
recently opened for the POSIT conference this year, and so I just wanted to make that known
and Curtis can share the link there in the chat. I guess one other quick note is if you
are watching this recording sometime in the future and want to join us live, the link to
add it to your calendar will be in the details below. And there's no rules and anybody has to
stay on the whole time or talk, come and go as if it's your schedule. But with all that,
thank you again for joining us and I am so excited to be joined by my co-host today,
Wes McKinney, Principal Architect at POSIT. And Wes, I want to kick things off here by
introducing yourself and your role, but also something you like to do outside of work too.
Yeah, I'm a software developer and an entrepreneur, so I've worked on a bunch of
open source projects in and around data science and Python in particular. So started what became
the Pandas Project about 16 years ago, and I've started a couple of companies and created some
other companies oriented at providing financial funding for open source development, partly with
POSIT's help. So worked on the Apache Arrow data infrastructure and computing layer for
data science tools and database systems. And that I worked closely with POSIT when it was still
RStudio throughout that project. And most recently spent a little over three years
starting Voltron Data and getting it off the ground to a 130-person company or so.
And just last fall, I made the transition out of my full-time role at Voltron Data. So I'm still
an advisor there on the advisory board, and I decided to rejoin up with more full-time
with POSIT to kind of work to make awesome polyglot data science tools and open source software.
And what about something you like to do outside? Oh yeah, outside of work. Outside of work,
I do a lot of yoga. So it turns out both Hadley and I are super into yoga,
which is kind of just random and unrelated. So I do that. I like to cook and run and read books.
And I still find a little bit of time for video games now and then, console video games. I have a
soft spot for retro games. So every now and then we'll indulge in a playthrough of an old
Super Nintendo game or something like that. Love it. Oh, I know you shared a little bit about
this in your intro, but to kick us off here, could you share a bit about
your path and kind of decision to join POSIT? Yeah. I mean, a lot of people
who know me well know that I've been involved in kind of collaborating with RStudio, POSIT for a
pretty long time. So I got in touch with, I met JJ well over, JJ Allaire, the CEO of POSIT well over
a decade ago when RStudio was just getting started. And I started talking with Hadley
about things that we could work on together that would help end the data science wars and
looking out for opportunities to work together on things that would help create more reusable
software and things that would help data science teams working with open source technology,
be more productive, enable Python and R teams to work together more effectively.
And so there were a couple of things that happened. So firstly, I think,
you know, Jupyter, you know, IPython started the IPython notebook that became Jupyter.
And so there started to be work on notebooks and developer development environments that could be
shared across Python and R. And then when I was interested in starting what became Apache Arrow,
one of the first things I do was, one of the first things I did was reach out to Hadley about
building a data format that would enable data to be shared between, you know, dplyr and R data
frames and pandas data frames to make using R and Python together a lot faster and a lot simpler.
So we got together in February 2016 and built what became Feather. So that was kind of the
start of the more hands-on collaboration with RStudio at that point. And then a couple years
later, I partnered, you know, partnered up more formally with Posit to create Ursa Labs.
So providing significant funding for Apache Arrow development, helping with the administration of
Ursa Labs so that I could focus on building software as opposed to running a company.
And so in a way, like, you know, in a way Posit essentially helped me incubate what became
Ursa Computing and then Voltron Data. And so Posit is, you know, remains like a kind of
shareholder and kind of an active, like an active participant in things we've been doing in Arrow
and Voltron Data. And so when I was considering kind of my next, you know, my next move after being,
you know, full-time in a CTO role at Voltron Data, you know, the decision for me was given that
Posit has expanded its umbrella of, you know, its products to support Python, you know, building for
polyglot data science teams. I felt there was an opening for me to, you know, to use my experience
and skills to really help bolster that effort, align the product offerings and create really
amazing experiences for data science teams. So it ended up being like really great, you know,
really great timing, you know, given that I was at a, you know, a crossroads in my career,
like deciding, you know, how to allocate my time between, you know, the various projects that I
work on. And so, you know, and I've been, you know, just an enormous fan of the company. And so it's
great to kind of, you know, to be back and working more closely with, you know, with the team and to,
you know, have the opportunity to work on software that has such a large impact on so many people.
Thank you. Well, we're all so excited to have you here too.
I know I introduced you as principal architect, but maybe it might be helpful to explain
a bit about what that means. What is a principal architect?
Yeah, so I'm a, so at present, I'm a little bit of a, like a mixture between a, you know,
very technical, technical product manager, and a, you know, senior software developer,
software, software architect. So on one hand, I'm helping, helping provide, you know, feedback
and like strategic, you know, guidance and alignment in Posit's product, you know,
product roadmap, you know, features and identifying, you know, blind spots and things that,
things that Posit needs to build in order to create, you know, really great tools and systems
to support, in particular Python, Python focused or Python only data science teams.
I'm also, you know, as I'm finding my sea legs and the different projects going on in the company,
I'm doing, you know, some strategic, strategic development, like kind of targeted,
have high leverage, you know, development work on different, on different projects,
that taking, taking advantage of my, my background and experience with tools like,
like Pandas and kind of low level, you know, low level data work, like areas where
stuff that I know really well, where I can jump into a project, provide some, some targeted,
you know, targeted development assistance and, and help, help get, help accelerate
projects, feature roadmap. It's only been, it's only been about 10 weeks. So, you know, we'll see,
we'll see where things are in another three months or another six months, you know, by the time of
PositConf in, in August, but it's been, yeah, it's been really exciting. And, you know,
there's a lot of, there's so much stuff going on. So it's also an opportunity for me to really get
up to speed on all the things that Posit's been doing in, in the last, you know, five years,
while I've been busy, you know, working on, you know, we're working on Arrow, working on startups,
but also to, to, to, to spend time listening, to get, you know, look, look at what data science
teams are struggling with right now, what things are working well, like what things aren't working
well, and where, like, where are the opportunities to, to, to build things that, that can, yeah, make
the, you know, make, make things, make things better for, for data science teams.
Thank you. I'm starting to see a few questions coming in, and I know a few people joined right
after the start. So I'll just remind everybody, if you want to ask questions, you can post them
into the Zoom chat, and I will call on you to jump in, or you can also ask questions anonymously in
our team. We'll re-share the Slido link in the chat for you as well. But I see Sunday,
you had a question about Voltron data. Do you want to ask that live?
Sure. Can you, can you hear me? Yes, I can. Yeah. Interesting background, and it's interesting to
hear how many things have been involved in, you know, Posit, Arrow, and Voltron, but Voltron is
the one that's completely strange to me. What's, what's that about? What's that about? Sorry,
my name is Sunday. I'm a Senior Research Analyst with Premier Incorporated Health
Consultants, and I work with all, all of these tools. I'm from, I'm asking from outside of,
I'm from, I'm calling from Baltimore, Maryland, yeah. Thank you. Yeah. Well, so, so learning more
about Voltron data, we could spend the rest of the hour just talking about, you know, talking about
the company and, and all the things that it's doing. The, so, so we, we produced this, this
really great, like, knowledge base called the Composable, Composable Codex that goes through,
basically, the, the history of how, like, the, like, trends in, in data processing systems and
how we are currently in an era that we're working towards, basically, modularizing
the layers of the data stack to make things more interoperable and, and more, like, faster and
more reusable. Apache Arrow was one major piece of technology that was a, like, a missing, like,
a missing key to being able to enable some of this, this modularization and composability.
And last year, we, we worked with one of our development partners, Meta, and their, their
data infrastructure team. They have a project called, called Velox that is helping, kind of,
unify and modularize their query processing and query execution inside Meta's internal data
platform. And so, we created a, a paper that is the, I, I might fumble the title, but it's the,
the Composable Data Management System Manifesto. And, and so, I would highly encourage you to
check out the, the Composable Codex, which is on the voltrondata.com website, as well as the,
the VLDB paper, the Composable Data Management System Manifesto, which goes into, kind of, the,
kind of, the technical, you know, foundations of, like, why, like, where we are in the development
timeline of database systems, data science systems, data processing, and why we are working
to create these, these modular and, and composable components for building next-generation
data systems. And so, Voltron Data just recently launched its distributed GPU-accelerated,
you know, modular data engine, which, you know, we're, you know, working to incorporate into,
you know, data infrastructure providers like, like HP. And, you know, we, we believe that
employing accelerators like GPUs, but also custom silicon FPGAs is going to be a big trend in terms
of reducing the carbon footprint of large-scale data processing and machine learning. And so,
there's a lot of, you know, there's a big, kind of, a deep, a deep rabbit hole there, but
it's a very exciting time in the world of, in the world of computing. I think from the standpoint
of data scientists, you know, most, most people on the call, you know, we just want to write data
frame operations and SQL queries and have things go fast and not use a lot of, not use a lot of
energy. And so, another project that I've been very involved with over the last decade and that's,
has a, you know, a pretty good-sized team of Voltron Data is the Python IBIS project, which
provides a unified data frame API to tons of different SQL and non-SQL backends. And that's
one of the, kind of, the spokes of the strategy to facilitate the modularization of the, of the
data stack. So, you can think about IBIS as being like dplyr for, kind of, like dplyr for Python.
And so, we've, we've, you know, we've been put, we've put a lot of development work to,
into maturing that, that, that tool in the last few years.
Thank you. I see, James, you had a question in the chat about working on a multilingual team.
Do you want to jump in here next?
Sure. So, I work on a multilingual Python and R team, but it's not a software development team
so much as just processes. We take processes that currently exist, ask how can we automate
these, make them run faster, and get data to end users that need it for a variety of purposes.
And one of the main problems that I've encountered in working on that team is,
I'm an R user, I use projects in R, in R, EMD, and all the Python users,
all six or seven of them, use conda environments. And is there any progress on helping those two
different workflows, like, speak better together?
I know that it is, I know that it is, I don't know much about, about R, EMD, if that's,
if that's how you pronounce it. But I know that it is possible to, it is, it is possible to manage
an R dependency stack from conda. That's maybe not the, maybe not the answer that you were,
that you were looking for. But there, there is, like, a bunch of work in recent times
on improving the package management tools in general, particularly around cross-language,
cross-language packaging. So, like, one of the problems in the Python, in the Python world,
is that there is the Python package index, and there's the pip installer tool. And so,
the Python package index has the problem that it doesn't help you with non-Python dependencies,
and developers have to do a lot of work in order to package up and deploy
their packages as wheels on the Python package index. And so, for me, like, as a package developer,
I've had to suffer a lot of hardship in order to get my software, like PyArrow, for example, on,
on the Python package index. But, you know, basically pip and pipenv and Poetry, and there's,
you know, various Python tools, they only work if, like, your dependency stack and what you're
managing is something that lives on the Python package index. And so, if you have R or you have,
like, other things that need to be installed for your full application, then these kind of pip
centric or Python package index centric, index centric tools are not going to work for you.
And the same is true of, like, you know, if you have an R-centric application with,
with CRAN. And so, really, you know, we need to, we need to use cross, we need to use cross
language or language agnostic package management tools that assist with
kind of creating these reproducible, reproducible environments. I think Conda has the unfortunate
association that people see it as, you know, basically a product of Anaconda, the company.
But actually, I mean, nowadays, if you, you know, you can get a non-Anaconda distributed,
you know, installation of Conda and Mamba, which is, like, a faster replacement for Conda.
And there's a new packaging tool called Pixie. You're probably saying to yourselves, you know,
why do we need another packaging tool? But I'm pretty excited about Pixie for a couple of reasons.
So, firstly, it enables you to manage your dependency stack, you know, without having
to edit YAML files manually. So, like, you just add a dependency to your stack or remove
a dependency, and it manages the YAML files for you, similar to NPM or Cargo, if anyone's used
Rust. And so, I don't know that it's necessarily the answer that you're looking for, but I would,
I would say that trying to, you know, look at things like Pixie or just, or even Conda,
and trying to see if it's possible to create, you know, use those tools to manage both your R,
you know, your R environments that you want to deploy or your, and your Python environments
is one possible approach. There might be other approaches that I, that I'm not aware of, but
if I were in that situation, that's what I would, I would try to do. And then if I can't get it to
work, then I would write an angry blog post saying, like, I tried to do this and I failed.
So, maybe that might motivate the, that might motivate the developers to fix it. I've kind of
made a personal, like, promise to myself to, like, never work on a Python packaging tool,
because it's like, you know, we've all thought about it, because you get frustrated with the
packaging and say, and you want to say, hey, I'm going to go fix this, but I've made a pledge that
I will not, like, I will not, that's, you know, I might build a text editor before I build a
Python packaging tool. I was trying to make a few associations between some of the questions,
and maybe I'll get it right, maybe I won't, but Regis, I don't know, I think your question might
be associated with this one, but do you want to jump in? Yeah. Also, I usually have, this is my
background, and I say this is what data scientists do, because we bring data together so that we can
enable decisions, but I guess for what I'm talking about right now in my question, this is, like, R,
that's Python, and maybe this is Posit, I guess, the scene at store. Anyway, the question that I'm
having, because I know that you're talking about being able to use the two pieces, but
what I've been hearing, because I'm from R land, is that usually when you try to deploy a tool
somewhere, you have to spin up a virtual server and then have a Docker image inside of it in order
to get the packages in the project to be consistent so that it works the same at home when you deploy
as it did when you built it in the factory, but it's, I mean, you were saying, Wes, that it's,
you've gotten frustrated with package management stuff before, and you might end up writing an
angry blog post or something, but not to toot the horn of Posit, but it's really effortless
to deploy R projects and do however many iterations you need in Posit team, and I'm
just wondering if there is a plan to make it also painless for Python and Python and R together,
not using any additional stuff, but just because it's a real blocker, because right now if you
have to spin up this virtual instance with the Docker image, you have to talk to the IT department
or something and have them do all of that, especially if you need everything to be the same,
so, but I don't want to miss out on everything that's happening in Python land,
so that's really what I'm asking. Yeah, no, I think this is, yeah, I don't have a simple
answer for you right now, but I think you've hit the nail on the head that
this is the kind of problem where, as a data scientist or as a
system developer, you don't, this is not the thing that you want to have to spend
your precious time sweating over, it's like how to make this
just work in the production environment, and so I think it's important
for, in an enterprise setting with the various controls that are
in place in the production environment, I think it's critical
to make that process easy for our only applications, which I think,
to your point, I think Posit has made a big investment in making that seamless and just
work for R, and so getting to that point with Python applications or
applications that use Python and R, I think that's a critical
thing, so yeah, it's one of the areas where I'm getting
up to speed on what's been done,
while also trying to stay up to date on all of the, there's
active work going on in the Python community to improve this
deployment and productionization problem, even
Python is pretty fussy about site packages, and so that's
still a thing that plagues
users, so it's great to hear that feedback, but
something I will definitely be zooming in on and
trying to help get to a place that where people are
happy with how things work. One very, thanks for that answer, one very
unsatisfying pseudo solution that I've kind of
thought of is just using Python when I have to use Python, but just
keeping it restricted to just those things that I need to use it for and
deploying that in an API and then just reaching into
that API from within R, because you can guarantee that R will work the same,
but you can't always guarantee, especially if the IT department
changes dependencies and those propagate and break things or
whatever, but I know that's not great or satisfying.
Yeah, I mean I think the ideal thing is that you would have
like a package, like essentially the equivalent of a package lock
on Python so you know that what you develop and test
locally is exactly what you're getting in the production environment,
and I think some users may want to be,
even be able to build the Docker image,
build a Docker image locally and have some tooling
around that so you can say this requirements file,
this base Docker image, build this for me so that I can
wire it up with my R application and use it through Reticulate or
through a web API to know that,
because to have something that works locally and then you deploy it and
then maybe it works initially but then it gets broken because of
something that was out of your control, that's not,
that's no fun. Yeah, so just to, I know I'm
taking too much time, but I'm just hoping I'll give you 10 more seconds
here. Yeah, I'm grateful that you're
going to be working on that because the Docker thing
doesn't really fly, it's not, you can't ask the IT department every time you
need a new Docker image, especially for the stuff we do as
data scientists. But yeah, thanks, I'll turn off my camera.
Thank you, Regis. Okay, I see Abigail, you had a question
about some of the lessons Posit is learning from Python users, want to ask
that here? Yeah, thanks. So I feel like
Cordo and Shiny are the two big
projects. I've used both of them. I went back and forth a lot with a very
patient Posit developer on why my Python build
was not compatible and I think he was a little taken aback by like how many
rounds back and forth we were doing and like how broken my Python build was,
whatever, whatever. So I feel like maybe that's one of the
issues. Like in general, like what are the things that
Posit has kind of taken away from like those like both fairly big tools and
you know trying to pull in Python users and like how has that gone?
Any lessons learned?
I think, I mean Cordo is definitely
like a great example of if the project started out,
I think the project started out like not working super closely with
the Jupyter ecosystem and
at some point while the project was still
a little bit flying under the radar,
they kind of reworked things to
make it something that works really well for that
like Jupyter-centric user and so for example,
there were people working on, like Jeremy Howard is one
example of somebody who's a very Python-centric user
working on deep learning and he wanted to write his book in Jupyter
notebooks and then convert it into a Cordo website but also
generate DocBook XML for O'Reilly Media
and I also, in my book, I got in touch with
JJ and the Cordo developers about
I would like to publish this book online and can you help me as
Cordo something that can help? And so I think that to
understand the R community and the
Python community I think are working in different,
working from different starting places and those ecosystems have
developed organically in different ways
and I think another thing that I often think about is the fact that
the Python ecosystem on a relative basis
has a lot, there's a much wider spectrum
of types of users,
the type of work that they are
doing, the types of applications that they're building
and so I think in the R world,
again, the generalization is not 100% valid but
I would say the plurality of people working in R
doing data science, data analysis, statistics,
machine learning and in the Python world you have a lot
more users that are doing some data work
using some of these tools but that
data analysis work might be incidental to some other
aspect of their job, some other job responsibilities and so
and that might be more software engineering or building
production applications or building web services or
there's many different things. Obviously you can do those things in R too
but in terms of how these teams have developed inside
companies,
yeah, it's the teams and the people and the teams
end up looking fairly different. I think that
it's great that we have this opportunity for
cross-pollination both in the open source libraries,
I think the Python community has learned a lot from the R community in terms of
API design, usability, user experience
and I've tried to incorporate lessons from the Tidyverse and from
dplyr and from ggplot2 into the things that
I've built and I think also the R
community has learned from things that
the Python community
has done also and so I think
there's an enormous opportunity
and the fact that we have a lot more active and more healthy
dialogue and that we're not hearing as much about
the language wars of Python sucks or R
sucks or R is not a language. I haven't seen one of those blog posts
in a while and so I think getting past the red team blue
team bickering about who's programming language is better
has enabled us to have just a lot more productive conversations about how
we can build real tools for humans that are
usable and accessible and how we can basically make the tent
bigger and bring more because
really the challenge that I see and that I think others see as well
is that we're not working R versus
Python, we're really like open source versus
closed source proprietary software and so
expanding the tent for open source and making
open source the preferred and attractive way
for businesses to go forward, that is
our main challenge and so
it's fine if you have a bunch of open source software
and an individual can get up and running but as soon as they want to go do that
at work and they find that they're running into
tons and tons of roadblocks or
there's a lot of not so fun stuff that
needs to be built to take free software that you can
download on the internet or pull from GitHub
and make it work in a business setting
so I think we've made great progress but
still a long road to go.
Thank you. Thank you Wes, I love that real tools for humans.
I see Russell put that into the chat as well.
Libby, you had a question a bit earlier, want to jump in here next?
Sure, it was a long time ago, let me see.
I'm just wondering as a person who
has been sort of a driving force behind a lot of packages and platforms and
things that have really wide visibility which most of us on this call
do not do and have not experienced,
do you feel like you had to develop a thick skin?
Speaking of red team versus blue team and like all of the
the feedback and the opinions that you get from all directions or that
you know we see from all directions and if you did have to develop a thick skin
how did you go about that?
I did. I will say that I don't think
that I always handle the negative or
petty feedback with Grace. I can think back on
times where I became sort of upset or
had an emotional reaction to something that
somebody said. I remember one time Jeff Reback who's
now got more contributions to pandas than I do
and he was corresponding with somebody, an issue reporter on
github and the person asked him if he was like a QA developer or a real
developer and so there are all
these little comments that needle or
that people complain about things and
maybe they're missing the bigger
picture or they don't realize that like yeah it's imperfect but you
already worked really hard on what's there and you feel like they don't
appreciate what you have built and they're only
focused on like what's wrong with it and so I think the
the feedback that you get in an open source project tends to only be
only be negative feedback. Sometimes you get people telling you
thank you like you know thanks for building this thing
it's great I use it it's great but mostly you get the negative feedback
people engage when there's something that something they don't
they don't like or something that doesn't work
something that's missing and you know it is tough
it is really tough. In terms of building a thick skin
yeah I think you know I think I don't know if anybody on this call
has ever ever listened to or read David
Foster Wallace's This is Water speech it was like a
commencement speech you know from like 2005 or something
and it encourages you to like be more
empathetic or like more compassionate about
like the subjective experience of other people
and so you know when you get this negative feedback like you have to
realize that like it isn't always about you or like
a criticism of you like it may actually be that that person is just having
like a tough time they're having a bad day maybe they've got you know they've
got everybody's got stress like everybody's
got difficulties in their job or difficulties with their family and so
you know whenever you're you know whenever you're seeing this feedback
you know you're you know you don't have that context of like
that person and like what they're you know what they're dealing with in
their life and so I think you have to kind of
you have to take the negative feedback with the grain of salt and realize that
you know when somebody's you know annoyed with your software not doing
what they wish it did or being perfect in the ways that they
wish for it to be perfect that you know that that comment is as
much about them as it is about is about you and so
you have to you know try try not to take it too personally
um I do I do not read my amazon book reviews and so
that was like I just I just decided not to do that
and um yeah and I I you know I try not to google myself
and uh I try not to look at like I don't I rarely look at my
um look at my you know my google results um
I don't look up things on you know twitter I guess it's x now
um but um yeah so social media is is you know not not a good place to get
feedback um but you know every now and then
there'll be comments on github that hurt and and um
yeah and over time like it it starts to hurt less and then after a while you
become numb to it um I think Hadley is like totally numb to
any any sort of feedback um and even to the
point where you know um yeah he uh yeah it doesn't
bother he doesn't mind you know being too too blunt with users it's like
you know I'm sorry you don't like that but I'm not going to fix it
basically I love that Wes thank you
thank you so much Wes it's just reminding me of
the episode of Ted Lasso I just watched last night too I wish
Deep Show was here for that um let's see okay Dan I see
you had to ask the question a little bit earlier here
about um LLMs and generative AI do you want to jump in
yeah sure thanks Rachel um just to curious
Wes to hear your own kind of top of mind views
on um how Posit intends to position itself
around generative AI and LLMs maybe in particular
um you know thinking about all the different ways that
LLMs obviously rely on data even though they're not always transparent
but you know what what are your thoughts around how Posit can
meaningfully position itself as a tool for developing generative AI
for testing and or monitoring generative AI responses and so on
yeah I I will I will will preface what I'm saying
by by saying that that there yeah I think are aspects of this that are
um I'm not sure what the phrase is above my pay grade
but um I I do know that that um you know co-pilot is is a big deal
for uh for for developer productivity and um you know making
you know co-pilot available and you know easy to use
and uh you know for people to opt in and use
and you know kind of using the using the LLM features
in a way that helps people be more you know be more productive
and use the tool in the way that it's it's best you know it's best used which
is you know you can use co-pilot to
generate unit test cases for you and and help with repetitive tasks that
you might otherwise like have to do a bunch of a bunch of
typing and maybe make a lot more errors than co-pilot would make
um you know would make would make the first time obviously there's you know
there's copyright you know copyright concerns and
and sort of IP uh you know IP concerns and you know other concerns about
you know misuse of um you know misuse of LLMs
and um you know I do yeah I I am you know concerned about um
you know about you know the ethical like ethical use
of LLMs and kind of the potential harm potentially harmful effects
you know on society I think the the downside of
you know the downside of making developers more productive is in the
future we need fewer developers most likely and so that does have like
a negative uh you know negative effect on on the
workforce um you know but you would hope that at
some point you know as we all become more productive that
that we uh um you know we can work less I think that's always been like the
sort of the dream of like increased productivity in the future
uh means we don't have we all don't have to work as hard but
um often you know the pointy haired bosses you know would prefer that we
uh do twice as much work in the same amount of time uh with more with better
tools but um so I don't know if that answers
your question but I think you know integrating I think integrating
Copilot into uh into uh Posit's
product offerings is you know I think that's table stakes
in in in 2024 and so we can have LLM assisted
LLM assisted data exploration uh development testing um and um
yeah I think I'm interested in like other sorts of LLM assisted like
workflows around data like actual data analysis like
helping you like actually ask better questions about the data I think that's
one interesting area of of research um
so not just like you know how do I make you know show me how to make this plot
with ggplot2 but actually like what are some other
way what are some other ways that questions that I could ask are like ways
that I could look at this data that might bring more like more insights I
think that's a pretty interesting uh an interesting area um kind of like a
LLM powered LLM powered like research assistant
kind of thing yeah no I think you're talking about
ways in which LLMs can help make you know R or Python use more productive I
was almost thinking the opposite like how
um Posit as as a form of IDE uh or development workspace could help
in the creation um and augmentation of say open source LLM models and maybe
it's not cool for that you know maybe other
tools are really more well suited to that use case um which is fine too
just but maybe in the future there's a place
for Posit in that in that space
yeah I mean I I know that um I mean the primary language of
of doing LLM research and implementations is
um you know is is Python and um I mean I think there's some you know
C++ development and probably some you know Rust development here and
there um but I think to the extent that um
you know I think we're like we're we're building
development environments that that assist
teams that are doing LLM doing LLM development or collaborating on LLM
development um I don't know that we have any
specific plans or at least specific plans that we're able to talk
about around like tooling to support LLM model development specifically
but I think I do think it's an interesting and
an important area um and given that the you know the Python world in particular
has has played like a pretty essential role
in like being the kind of the canvas for where a lot of these tools are are
being developed um I think as a company you know we
should uh you know try to you know we should
look at be look we should look seriously at like how we can
um you know yeah how how we can help or at least like
what what we can reasonably uh what we can reasonably do
to like um you know help with help with the LLM model development and the
collaboration process around it.
Thank you. Thank you. I want to make sure I don't forget to go over to some of the
anonymous questions on Slido and one that was asked over there was in
your opinion what's the best way to start in Python?
Yeah um I if you if you've never worked in
if you've never worked in Python before um I guess my advice is always
um you know to find something concrete that you would like to do with
to do with Python. It could be something like really mundane
like uh you know if if you're curious about
you know I don't know like what what you're spending your money on
Amazon or something like that I get really curious about my personal
finances so but find some problem that's relevant
to your life and um I think there's there's a number
of great books that um that help with you know learning
Python from a from a beginner standpoint like um
um you know automate the boring stuff with Python.
I know the author of that book and um you know there's
you know there's some other kind of you know introductory Python books just for
the Python language. I have a book that's now in its third
edition called Python for Data Analysis that has if you're you know interested
in learning about data analysis and data science
um it has like kind of a quick start in Python. It doesn't go into object
oriented development or building you know serious software in Python
but if you're looking to learn just enough Python to use Pandas and get
uh get up and running with you know Jupyter notebooks
and uh and work with data I think I think it's a great resource for that and
so I wrote the book intending to for it to be like a quick start for
somebody who has some basic programming experience
um but wants to use Python for uh for kind of data data analysis data
science.
Thank you uh let's see Russell I see you just asked a
question in the chat about advice for building a company.
Want to jump in? Sure um great presentation thank you um as
someone who has built several really successful companies Wes,
do you have any recommendations for people who would like to build
companies particularly data science companies?
Yeah it's it's it's very it's very difficult um I've my route my route to
building companies has been um you know definitely different from you
know from a lot of people because I've been
I've really focused on the on the technology and then kind of retrofitting
like a business model and uh and a corporate structure like around like
in support of of the of the open source projects and so for me the process has
been build build an open source software
project um build critical mass uh start engaging
with users of that project and then learn from learn from those
users like well outside of the open source project and solving the kind of
low-level technology problems like what are the the next set of problems that
need to be solved you know around that so it could be just like in in the case
of like in the case of Voltron data for example
like the first product that we launched was um like an enterprise
like an enterprise support and open source partnership program
for Apache Arrow because we recognized that there were businesses
that were incorporating um Arrow into their
into their own products and systems and they needed to have a reliable
partner and a private channel to discuss issues that they encountered using the
open source software in their in their internal development and to create a
structure where we could align on development initiatives within the open
source project but that they wanted to put funding behind but in like a more
structured way where they're like there's a contract and you know like
kind of deliverables and timelines and you know recently concrete resourcing
and all of the you know kind of things that you would you would need around like
a commercial you know kind of enterprise enterprise contract um I think that
other people start companies that are more you know they start with identifying
like identifying a business problem and conceptualizing a product that solves
that problem and so kind of starting from more like the product on down and
you say okay given what the product needs to do and so like the technology
that you build to create to deliver that product ends up being like an
incidental something incidental that you know in a sense like it's like the
iceberg thing like there's this bit of ice that you see above the water like
that's the product but then there's all this other stuff that you build
underneath and so from the user standpoint you know they don't need to
know that much about you know how it's built just that it works um I haven't
built too many of like those kinds of companies but um I've seen many people
you know work on them uh so I think learning from you know learning from
your users um you know being open-minded um you know have strong opinions but
loosely held opinions so be willing to change your mind and and learn from
learn from feedback and um I think you know I've benefited greatly from
mentorship and help from uh from many others you know from the generation you
know the generation above me um I'm I'm 38 I've been doing uh
entrepreneurial things for you know the past 11 or 12 11 or 12 years um you
know I had my 20s I benefited greatly from uh from folks who you know had you
know 10 or 20 years of experience on me in in entrepreneurship and uh in open
source software and so you know I learned a lot from people in the Python
community um around open source community building project development
culture um and you know I think without that that mentorship and that helping
help from from others who who'd been on the path you know before me um it I
would have uh you know not yeah it would have been harder for me to to get where
I get where I am now so standing on the standing on the shoulders of giants
certainly excellent thank you
thank you I guess while we're on the this topic of advice for people starting
a company Wes what is one of the most memorable pieces of career advice you've
either received or or maybe given throughout your professional journey
um I would say I I would say for me yeah probably the most frequent advice that I
give to other people is to uh is is to focus on uh you know what you're
is to focus on like people and and relationships so in investing in your
relationships with people that you want to work with for a long time and also
viewing your working relationships with a with a long-term mindset um not just
like you know what value to we do we have to each other right now in the
project that we were working on together but also like what you know what value
might these working relationships have you know have in the future and so for
me both in a entrepreneurial setting but also in an open source software setting
I've taken that mindset and how I interact with other open source
developers from this kind of long-term long-term relationship building uh
standpoint so it might be that um you know there's no opportunity to
collaborate with somebody or to work with somebody right now but there might
be in five years and so it's kind of this balancing act of like how do you
you know how do you spend your time or like who do you decide who to collaborate
with and like where to spend you know your your uh you know eight or ten hours
of working hours in a day um and um but you know I think finding people that you
like working with people that you feel inspired and productive around like who
who you know help to generate ideas and helps you feel kind of motivated and
productive about what you're working on and um you know and finding and
cultivating those relationships and people that you want to work with for a
long time and so you know I I have people that I've worked with you know
actively off and on for over over a decade and I I treasure those I treasure
those relationships and so I think I've definitely seen other people who you
know are working in a more you know transactional mindset and thinking more
short term about you know their relationships um or treating you know kind
of people as more um kind of uh interchangeable parts you know who you
know serve kind of a short-term purpose to achieve like some you know business
goal or some you know complete some task that you have in front of you um but um
you know kind of taking a more people and human centric like mindset towards
towards that I think for me at least has been um yeah it's been a lot more
rewarding and I think has has been you know more valuable long term and so I
always encourage other people to to to you know to the extent that they're able
to to take that approach as well.
Absolutely that's great. Thank you. I know this is always one of the quickest
hours for us of the week um so I I will be sure to go through and check out any
questions that we have missed and try and collect those um but I did just want to
add um or ask one one more question um we are going to be in Minneapolis as a
company for company-wide work week and so some people had submitted questions
ahead of time for a panel that we're having there um and so one and you don't
have to cram maybe all of this into the two minutes here so maybe let me make it
more generic um what are you most excited about at Posit in the year ahead um
and perhaps about your vision for Python work at Posit going forward?
Well that's a big that's a big question um I personally like I'm you know I think
this is for me this has been like one of the first opportunities I've had to um in
the last several years to get my get my head above water and take a more like a look a
more uh like a you know kind of my data science walkabout you know so to speak and learn
learn more about what everybody else has been building and doing in the last you know five
or six years where I've been like I've you know I really had my head down and been really
focused on um the Arrow project and its and its ecosystem and um and so you know I'm I'm
you know really impressed with with everything that I've everything that I see that's you know
that's been built uh you know in the last few years around you know developer tools and
productivity and environments and you know tooling that supports all these different
all these different types of work um and so yeah I think um you know I'm also looking
you know sort of thinking longer term about you know like like what are my next big projects going
to look like and you know like what else could I work on aside from continuing to nudge along
you know the projects that I've uh worked on in the past um you know to help uh reach kind of
the next you know uh kind of the next plateau of like progress and growth in the ecosystem
so so I'm in a you know I'm in a learning mode I think that um you know I think that the people
that I'm working with at Posit um you know it's a very stimulating environment and a place for me
to learn and and um and you know come up with new ideas and so um yeah I'm really excited to see what
that uh you know what that holds for me personally and also you know for the company and for the
and for the data science ecosystem more generally. Thank you so much Wes. I really tried to cram a
few questions into that last one and you did a great job there. I really appreciate you joining
us to to share your experience. This has been great. Thanks everybody for for hanging out with
me for an hour. I enjoyed it so thank you. Yeah thank you all so much for joining us today. I know
there were a few people joining for their first time ever today for the hangout so I did just
want to let people know again we do have these every Thursday at 12 eastern time. If you use
the short link I just shared in the chat you can add them to your calendar. Come whenever it fits
your schedule. I'm so excited to go back and read through this chat and all the resources and
everything that that people shared. If you did want to save the chat for yourself um the three
dots below it in Zoom you can just open that up to save the chat there too. Thank you all so much
for the great questions and everything. I really appreciate it. Have a great rest of the day.